---
title: "YOLO-RED : Real-time Object Detection on Edge GPU Devices"
excerpt: "Lightweight object detection model exploiting multi-scale feature interaction to improve accuracy without hurting execution speed, executing real-time on various Jetson devices"
collection: portfolio
date: 2020-03-01
---

**Abstract** : Performance of object detection has been growing rapidly on two major fronts, model accuracy and efficiency. However, in order to map deep neural network (DNN) based object detection models to mobile devices, one typically needs to compress such models significantly, thus compromising the model accuracy. With the introduction of a new class of mobile computing architecture, that attempts to pack a good amount of computing power into a mobile device, the NVIDIA Jetson GPU series represents an embedded compute system for DNN acceleration on the edge. In this paper, we propose YOLO-RED, a family of object detection models equipped with a novel raw feature collection and redistribution module that perform real-time on various NVIDIA mobile GPU devices available in the market. We build our models using the YOLOv3 skeleton, a commonly used single-shot object detection model, and carry out a full-body restoration using our raw feature collection and redistribution module, making the models suitable for running real-time on these devices. For instance, YOLO-RED with MobileNetV2x0.75 backbone runs real-time on Jetson Nano, and achieves 68.75 mAP on Pascal VOC and 34.91 mAP on COCO, beating the current state-of-the-art real-time model by 3.05 mAP and 0.91 mAP respectively, while executing faster by 3.05 FPS.

Under Review. PDF and Code coming soon!
